The mere accuracy of facts used by a historian should not be the primary determinate of good history. Indeed, the historian should always strive to use the most accurate materials he has access to, but to praise him simply because he has done so neglects his other, and more important, duties as a historian. Historical facts are only factual in so far as that they provide insight into the ways in which one, or a number of people, perceived a singular moment in time. In this way they are historical facts, but are facts of a different quality than that what is commonly conceived of as a fact. To begin with, these facts lack the ability to determine and define an objective reality as it was experienced, and instead serve only to illuminate that which the author perceived to be happening. This is because the process of selection occured within the author himself (who experiencd the historical event) who necessarily had to choose specific elements of his experience he considered worth relating because to pay equal and exhaustive attention to all elements within a moment is not possible. 

The important point that I am struggling to articulate is the fact that objective reality, or ultimate truth, of a moment gone by is an unattainable goal for the historian because such an objective cannot even be achieved in the current moment. Presently, I am sitting at my kitchen table writing this comment, and as far as my perception is concerned, the room is at an agreeable temperature, and although I can hear my neighbors with whom I share a wall, they are not loud enough to severely affect my attention. If you were to replace me with another person, however, they might say that the room is a bit too cold for their liking, and don’t even notice the sounds of my neighbors because they are accustomed to much louder environments. Who is right and who is wrong? Certainly neither, because there is no objective reality that can be derived from this single situation. Applying this concept to history, even if you were to witness a historical event unfolding before your eyes, I do not believe it would be possible to define an objective truth in the situation. Further, I do not think that any major historical figure could tell you the truth of the historical moment they experienced because they are nothing more than a single individual experiencing one moment through five senses. 

If the point of history then is not to establish an objective reality of a historical moment, then what exactly is the historian expected to do? Unfortunately, I cannot properly answer this question, but what I can say is that I do not believe history to be an attempt at past environment reconstruction, but rather an endeavor to understand the dynamics of a time past; it is not so much about what actually happened, but rather what people perceived to have happened, and it is these perceptions which are historical facts. If these facts can be reconfigured into original hypothesis, we then have an opportunity to formulate a better understanding of the past. 

Hopefully this comment has left you feeling sufficiently confused and questioning the existence of truth. Yay
