The question I am about to ask make me think of this quote from the Great Gatsby: 

"So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the past." 

Bloch effectively refutes the notion that history is "pernicious," or even useless. A notion that I didn't really know existed outside of my engineering friends who always make fun of its lack of application. 

And he bloch does refute this notion throughout the book, ”The most indulgent have said that history is both unprofitable  and unsound; others, with a severity which admits of no compromise, that is it is pernicious. One of them, and not the least celebrated, has declared it ”the most dangerous compound yet contrived by the chemistry of the intellect.” These condemnations offer a terrible temptation, in that they justify ignorance in advance. Fortunately for those of us who still remain our intellectual curiosity, there is, perhaps an appeal from their verdict 

Though I am not familiar with this notion, and despite Bloch's apt refutation of it, it got me thinking:

I. "History doesn't repeat itself but it rhymes." - quote attributed to Mark Twain. 

If we can admit that the present is rather messed up, and it is the result of the rhythyms of history, then can we also admit, that in some capacity, the study of history is to blame?

Think of George W's "crusades" quote when invading Iraq. Or The middle East itself, who use history to perpetuate war on the grounds of historical conflicts. 

Or Europe, seemingly every major war has had historical causes. Obviously, but whether it is Hitler trying to recapture the essence of the Roman empire, or Napaoleon the same - history has clearly been a player in a bad way here. 

So Essentially my question is: is our attachment to the past what is ultimately holding us back from real change as a society? effectually, bearing us back ceaselessly into the same mistakes we've been making since the dawn of mankind? 

Does the study of history in and of itself perpetuate this cycle? 

II. If we can admit that in many cases history has been pernicious. that is to say, having a harmful effect in an indirect or unintended way, then can we also say that the energy spent in this field would have/is better spent on other studies (e.g. engineering, math, etc)?

I hope this isn't offensive to lovers of history, just a few thoughts. 

-Joseph 

"The past isn't dead, it isn't even the past." - WF
