Charles Whithers argues, in his paper "Place and the 'Spatial Turn' in Geography and History", that place, defined as that 
area within which human existence occurs, within the greater context of space, has value as a method for historians to utilize when syudying culture, or change over time within that culture. In a limited sense this concept of geography, place, as impactful on the development of a culture is self evident. For example, when researching people who settled in an area close to the ocean shore it could be expected that many of the mores and traditions of that culture were strongly influenced by their proximity to the ocean. By the same token a research might expect to find mores and traditions among people who are in a mountainous region. This is good anthropology.

But Whiters is asking us to more clearly define the idea of place in order to pprovide the historian with another useful tool to further the study of a culture, and the evnts that happen within that culture. That geography is central to the decsions and changes that occur within the framework of the culture. This concept has had tremendous results after it was applied to research within what is now referred to as the Atlantic system. Previous research had been limited to the trade and social relationships within each country that would eventually be included within the Atlantic system. Researching the realationships of each of these countries regarding the slave trade within the broader context of the geographical bounds of the tripartite sytem of Europe, Africa, and the Americas has helped researchers better explain the changes that occurred within and between each of the countires involved within the geographical bounds of the Atlantic system. 

But would looking at the geography of scientic development yield simlar results? I do not think it would since scienctific discoveries and inventions are attained through the imagination and tenacity of the individual. For example, would Issac Newton's discoveries have been different had he been Italian and not English? All other things being equal, and the fact that his discoveries were about generalaties, those things which occur regardless of space or place, whether he lived in Italy or England, or China for that matter would have made little difference. 

I believe that the 'spatial turn' in historical research will be of benefit and offers another tool for historians to use, it will be limited. It will be left to the imagination of each historian to determine whether his research will be aided by space and place. 
