"Structuralists might tolerate history of a structuralist sort." 
This was interesting to me. Is history not structured? I suppose at times it can be random. But mostly I view history as events
of the past, that occurred in some structured form. Clark even mentions herself that by working from documents scholars learn
to appreciate how structures underlie the succession of events. So what was the purpose of this statement? 
To me this statement means that anthropologists might tolerate history of a structuralist sort. In spending a large portion of 
the chapter on Levi-Strausses Anthropology theories, the above statement makes perfect sense. Levi-Strauss emphasized
these main differences between Historians and Structuralist Anthropologists:
1. Historians work from only documents. Anthropologist work from the field.
2. Historians focus "hot" societies. Anthropologists focus on the "cold". 
3. History works from the explicit to the implicit. Anthropology from the particular to the universal.
The chapter makes no effort in hiding Levi-Strausses animosity towards history when compared to anthropology, although
it does mention his enjoyment of the "random" qualities to history. I personally think anthropology and history go hand in hand,
especially when structuralism is included. Structuralism is not only in the sequence of events that both historians and
anthropologist study, but it is in how they study it too. Clark mentions linguistics and structuralism. She quotes Barthes: 
All culture could be understood as a general system of symbols. I agree with this in both historical and anthropological
terms. Both disciplines are studied by either watching interactions between people, societies, etc. or by reading them.
Language is a structure of names, syllables, and symbols. History would not be history if it weren't for structuralism and 
linguistics.
Earlier in the novel Clark dicusses the past and present. She mentions that Critics of historiography see the past as being
only in the present as preserved text and hence therefore cannot be altered. These critics shed light on the problem
that historical text cannot bring to life the feelings recorded in text. One has to simply guess at what the author of the words
might be experiencing. I think this is pertinant to how linguistics are structured. If structured poorely then the symbols on the
page might be misinturrupted and historical content changed. Structuralism, even though an anthropology-based term, has great
purpose in historical discipline. Whether centered on history and linguistics or just history itself, I agree with Clark, that 
structualism cannot be overlooked. History without structuralism would be as Levi-Strauss called it, random. 
